docs: React core documentation (#778)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/04-api-reference/front-commerce-core/react.mdx

---
title: "React"
sidebar_position: 3

> description: "This documentation will cover all React dedicated APIs."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This documentation will cover all React dedicated APIs provided by the Front-Commerce core."
```

Author: fixed with your suggestion

---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

> To help you creating the best front-end with React, we've created the some React
> piece of code that you can reuse in your components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help you creating the best front-end with React, we've created convenient React
hooks and components that you can reuse in your application.
```

Author: fixed with your suggestion

## `useConditionalCallOnMount`

Execute a callback when component is mounted if a condition is met.

```js
useConditionalCallOnMount(condition, callback);
```

Arguments:

- `condition`: A `boolean` that specify if the callback must be executed
- `callback`: A function that must be executed if `condition` is `true`

Example:

```jsx
import { useConditionalCallOnMount } from "@front-commerce/core/react";

const AcmeComponent = ({ props }) => {
  const logOnMount = () => {
    console.log("I am mounted");
  };

  useConditionalCallOnMount(props.shouldLogOnMounted, logOnMount);

  return <div>Acme Component</div>;
};
```

## `useIsMount`

A variable that return `true` or `false` depending of the component mount status

```js
useIsMount();
```

Return: `boolean`

Example:

```jsx
import { useIsMount } from "@front-commerce/core/react";

const AcmeComponent = ({ props }) => {
  const isMounted = useIsMount();

  return (
    <div>
      {isMounted ? "Component is mounted" : "Component isn't mounted yet"}
    </div>
  );
};
```

## `useItemsValidityCheck`

> Return an object to tell the status of validty of an array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return an object to tell the status of validty of an array (mostly used in the context of cart items).
```

Author: fixed with your suggestion

```js
useItemsValidityCheck(items);
```

Arguments:

- `items`: an array of object that have a property named `valid`

Return

`Object`:

- `allValidityResolved` (`boolean`): all items contains a `valid` property
- `hasValid` (`boolean`): array contain at least one item with `valid` property
  with value `true`
- `allValid` (`boolean`): all items have `valid` property with value `true`

Example:

```jsx
import { useItemsValidityCheck } from "@front-commerce/core/react";

const items = [
  {
    title: "My website is using Front-Commerce",
    valid: true,
  },
  {
    title: "The answer is 42",
    valid: true,
  },
  {
    title: "My front-end use PHP",
    valid: false,
  },
];

const AcmeComponent = ({ props }) => {
  const arrayValidation = useItemsValidityCheck(items);

  return (
    <div>
      Validity status : Are all items valid ? {arrayValidation.allValid}
      Is array have at lease one valid item ? {arrayValidation.hasValid}
      Are all item passed validity resolution:
      {arrayValidation.allValidityResolved}
    </div>
  );
};

> ```

Reviewer: **issue:**  I don't think it makes sense to invent an irrelevant example. This API is here for legacy reasons, and used only for adding items to cart/wishlist. I think we'd better get rid of it and I'd rather keep the doc succint.

**suggestion:** remove example, and add maybe a sentence saying that it's an API we don't recommend to use unless there is a good use case for it (or something like that :))

Author: fixed

## `useCallbackModal`

> Manage actions with modal and modal state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage interactions with a modal and its state.
```

Author: fixed with your suggestion
